---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts on blogging and friction"
date: 2024-10-24
tags: 
---

I've been reading a lot of smaller blogs recently and have really enjoyed the shorter stream of consciousness posts that pop up in between the longer form, full on blog entries. 

That got me to thinking and wondering why I don't post some of those somewhat inane thoughts that no one _really_ needs to read. And it struck me that it might be the friction of posting. My blog is a static site generated by Jekyll and hosted on GitHub pages. This is great from a technical point of view because I don't have to worry about building or hosting. It just works. 

But there a modicum of friction involved in posting. 
- I've got to remember the right YAML front matter
- I've got to open a PR or else write it out in one go
- I've then got to remember to merge the PR
- If I want to post something while I'm away from my laptop, it's just more friction again

My blog has gone through a few iterations over the years. A plain hand written HTML site, some kind of PHP backed code, self hosted Jekyll and the GitHub pages. I've got to the stage now where I'm itching to change it again and make it easier to post on the go.

Like nearly everyone, I have my phone with me almost all the time and with a few free minutes I should be able to bang out a couple of hundred words and memorialise them!

These are just thoughts for now, but who knows, maybe I'll find a few free minutes and bang out a solution to be happy with :)
